# 10/8/24 Meeting Log
## Overview
At todays meeting we learned about arrays and looping, which are methods to prevent writing the same line of code hundreds of times! (Among many, many other benefits)
## Arrays
An array is a special type of variable - it can store many values all at the same time. You could store hundreds of connected things together, such as bullets in a video game.\
Instead of making each bullet its own variable, you could instead create a single array that contains every bullet, and you simply add and remove bullets from the array as needed.\
To make an array, you use the following syntax:
```js
let name = [] //Create a new empty array, notice the similarities between this and regular variables
let foo = [5,6,7,8] //Create a new array, one that already contains the values 5,6,7 and 8.
```
Make sure that your array always contains the same datatype. If it is going to contain numbers, it should only ever contain numbers. Mixing other datatypes can cause really weird errors or problems.
Arrays start counting at zero, not one, which is something to get used to. If you want to access a specific item in an array, we call this Indexing into the array. You can do so like this:
```js
let foo = [5,6,7,8]
foo[0] //5
foo[1] //6
//Etc.
```
You can also add and remove items from arrays, which I will demonstrate:
```js
let foo = []
foo.push(7) //Add 7 to the end of foo
foo.remove(7) //Remove 7 from foo. Note this function does not exist in regular JavaScript, it is provided by WoofJS. If you are interested in how to remove items without .remove, look up .splice!
```
### Looping
Now that you can store a lot of similar items in one place, lets do some interesting stuff with them!\
There are many different types of loop. WoofJS provides you with a forever loop, an every loop, among other options. Check the WoofJS documentation to see them all.\
Today I will just be teaching you one loop, the primary loop that you will be using. It is called the `for` loop.
```js
for(let i = 0; i < x; i++){
    //Code here runs each time the loop triggers
    //Just like a function, i can be considered a parameter and available for use
}
```
Now, what on earth is all of the stuff contained within the parenthesis??? Well, it is 3 separate items split by the semicolons. Heres what each one does:
`let i = 0`
This creates a new variable, named i (Stands for 'Index', it is custom to name it i, but you can use any name of course)\
We initialize this variable with the value 0. This variable will contain how many times the loop has iterated, and can be used in the loop. We start it at zero because arrays start counting at zero, which allows us to use this to index into arrays like shown previously.
`i < x`
This is the condition that needs to be true for the array to run. Typically this is i < a number, most of the time this is the length of an array (`array.length`).
`i++`
This code is ran every time the loop finishes an iteration. It increases i by one, which means it slowly counts up. Eventually, i will not be less than the condition, which will terminate the loop.\
With loops, you need to be sure that the loop will not run forever. That can hold up your program, and cause major problems. Counting up with a less than condition is a good way to ensure you will not run forever.\
So now you know how to make an array and write a loop, lets put the two together!
```js
let foo = [5,6,7,8]
for(let i = 0; i < foo.length; i++){
    foo[i] += 2
}
//After the loop, foo is equal to [7,8,9,10]
```
In the above example, we add 2 to every single value in foo, resulting in the array in the comment at the end.
