# 9/17/24 Meeting Log
## Overview
This was the first official meeting where we actually did programming! (Information meeting does not really count) Trying to go a little faster this year than I did last year, today I got through the basics of variables, datatypes, and drawing items on the screen! If you missed the meeting, this log will explain everything, but as always come and find me if you need any help!
## Variables
### Info
Variables are how you store information in your program. Think of them like a box that you can stick whatever you want into - a number, some text, a rectangle on the screen, etc. These are your fundamental building blocks for any program you write - all programs need some way to store information and act on that information in some way!
### Creating a variable
To create a variable in your code, you need three parts.\
First you need to tell the program that you want to create a variable, that is what the keyword `let`.\
Second you need to name your new variable, this is how you will reference it in the future to do neat stuff with it!
Third you can optionally assign the variable a value by doing `{...} = "value"`, where you can replace the value on the right of the equals with whatever you want to store in the variable. If you do not initialize a variable by giving it a value, it will automatically be given the value ```undefined```\
Here is an example of it fully put together:
```js
let name = "value"
```
### Datatypes
So you can store stuff in variables now, what all can we store? All variables have a datatype associated with their value, which tells the programmer what they can do with the value. For example, you can add two numbers, but you cannot add the word "hello" with the number 7. (Well... you can. Don't, but it won't stop you. If you are interested, that would result in "hello7")\
There are two types of datatype (That isn't confusing at all eh?): Primitive and Complex datatypes. Primitive datatypes are your basic things like numbers or text. These things are super simple concepts, which is why they are primitive. Complex datatypes would be something like a rectangle. That is super complicated, it has many numbers representing different points on the rectangle, an angle, color, etc. You can see how that would be more complex than a simple number.\
For now, I will just explain the primitive types. There are some complex types that are built into JS, and even more built into WoofJS (Like Rectangle for example), but a lot of complex types are defined by you, the programmer. But thats for another day.
#### Number
The most primitive of primitive, a number is just that, a number. This can be any real number, positive or negative, as well as a few special values like ```Infinity``` or ```NaN``` (Not-A-Number).\
A variable that stores a number looks like the following:
```js
let number = 7
let negativeNumber = -7
```
#### String
Strings are another primitive type, strings are plain text. The word `"Hello"` is a string, as is the word `"World"`. They could also be more than one word like `"Hello World"`, or even containing special characters like `"ðŸ€"`.\
All strings need quotations around them as I have been doing. This is to make sure that there is a difference between your variable named `number` and the word `"number"`.
A variable that stores a string looks like the following:
```js
let string = "Hello World!"
```
#### Boolean
A boolean is our final primitive type (There are others, but this is all for today). A boolean stores a true or false value, pretty simple. (Technically there are two other values a boolean could be, but lets ignore that for now).\
The keywords `true` and `false` must not be capitalized. You will see in the example I named my variables `True` and `False`, I could do this because the actual values have lowercase letters only. I could not make a variable called `false`, because that is a keyword.
A variable that stores a boolean looks like the following:
```js
let True = true
let False = false
```
## Drawing a rectangle on the screen
Now that you know what variables are, lets do something cool! We can draw a rectangle on the screen thanks to WoofJS!
An example of a rectangle would be:
```js
let rectangle = new Rectangle({
  width: 100,
  height: 50,
  x: 50,
  y: 100,
  color: "blue"
})
```
You can see we provide a lot of interesting properties to make this rectangle special. Its location, size, and color are all special! There are plenty of other properties we can change, but I only chose to do these for now. Try modifying them and adding some more, like `angle`!\
Now thats cool and all, but its pretty boring. It doesn't do much. Lets make it do something interesting!\
One thing you can do is make it do some stuff when you click on it! Lets do that now!
```js
rectangle.onMouseDown(() => {
  rectangle.color = randomColor()
})
```
Now when you click on the rectangle, its color will change to a random color! You can modify a lot of its properties here, like its location or size! Try modifying this code to do more interesting things like that!\
There are many more ways you can interact with the object, this is just one example. Don't worry if you don't fully understand the whole mess of () and the funny => arrow, thats something for a long time from now. For now, all you need to know is when you click on the rectangle, the code inside the {} will run.
## Wrapping up
That was a lot of information, and we made it through in one hour! Have fun, mess with the code you have written, make some interesting stuff. There are some basic tutorials in WoofJS, you now know enough to follow the first one and make a basic game if you would like to! If you are interested in some more features of WoofJS, check out its documentation tab.\
See everyone at the next meeting!\
-NaS