# 9/24/24 Meeting Log
## Overview
This meeting we went over if statments and the basics of using logic in your code. Cool stuff!
## If Statments
An if statment is the basis of any program. Without them, you could not do anything interesting with your code! They are exactly what they sound like, a way to execute code IF something is true. The syntax for an if statment is as follows:
```js
if(condition){
    //Execute code here
}
```
In the above example, if the condition in the parenthesis is true (more on conditions in a second), then the code inside the braces will be executed. Otherwise, that code is skipped!\
This is very useful, for example you could check if a key is pressed, and move a player character accordingly. Without if statments, this would be impossible.\
You can also execute code if the condition fails. This is called an else statment! (Very creative names, I know)
```js
if(condition){
    //Code executes if the condition is true
} else {
    //Code executes if the condition is false
}
```
You can also chain if statments together, to create long if-else chains!
```js
if(condition1){
    //Code executes if the condition is true
} else if(condition2){
    //Code executes if condition 1 fails, and condition 2 succedes
} else {
    //Code executes if the condition 1 and condition 2 are false
}
```
Note, if condition 1 is true, the program will not even check if condition 2 is true or false. It skips the rest of the chain once it hits a single true condition.
## Conditions
So, now you know how to use conditions, but you don't know how to write a condition yet! Lets clear that up.\
A condition is any statment that can be true or false (Remember booleans from last week?)\
These conditions are written between the () of an if statment, but could also be written as the definition of a variable, if you wanted to set the value of the condition as a variable.\
There are many ways to write a condition depending on what you would like to do. I will mention the normal ones here:
### Equality
The most obvious option is the equality operator. This checks if two values are equal to each other.\
Note this does not just mean 5 equals 5, this could also mean the string "hello" is equal to "hello", etc.
```js
if(myCoolVariable === 7){
    //It's 7!
} else {
    //It could be any other number, or something else entirely, like a string!
}
```
You need to use 3 equals signs. 1 equals sign means assigment, you saw that one last week with our variables. 2 has its own special purpose I won't mention here, and 3 is equality.
### Value Conditions
I have combined a few different conditions into one thing I call value operators. These you are probably also familiar with from your math classes:
```js
if(myCoolVariable > 7){
    //Greater than
} else if(myCoolVariable >= 50){
    //Greater than or equal to
} else if(myCoolVariable < 17){
    //Less than
} else if(myCoolVariable <= 500){
    //Less than or equal to
}
```
I hope those are not a suprise!\
Make sure that myCoolVariable is a number. If you try to use these with other datatypes, like strings, you will get unexpected results!
### And
Now, what if you want to check if two conditions are both true? Sure you could put a second if statment within the first one like so:
```js
if(condition1){
    if(condition2){
        //Do stuff if both are true
    }
}
```
But that is very clunky, and makes you nest your code further. We have not talked about nesting code yet, but just know that as a general rule of thumb if you are nesting code a lot, it is a bad idea.\
We could rewrite the above so it is shorter, more concise, and does not nest twice!
```js
if(condition1 && condition2){
    //Do stuff if both are true
}
```
Isn't that so much nicer?
Now this gets interesting. Notice how we have joined the two conditions into one in a sense? We could wrap that whole structure in parenthesis, and use it as its own condition. More on that in a second.
### Or
Just like And, you can do something if one or the other condition is true.
```js
if(condition1 || condition2){
    //Do stuff if one, the other, or both are true
}
```
### Not
Now, what if you want to check if a condition is not true? Well depending on what you are doing there are a few ways to do this.
#### Not Equal
Not equal is very simple, you simply replace one equals with the not sign (!)
```js
if(myCoolVariable !== 7){
    //It is anything other than 7
}
```
Notice that this is basically the else clause, but without the first if? You could also write this (and anything in this not section) as just the condition without the not, and add an else statment. Depending on what you are doing, you would use one or the other syntax.
#### Value Conditions
Value conditions do not have or need the not operator, because you can just invert the condition.\
For example, not greater than is the same thing as less than
#### Not'ing a condition
Now you can also not an entire condition at once. This is also simple:
```js
if(!condition){
    //The condition is false!
}
```
### Chaining conditions
Remember a few mintes ago, when I was talking about AND, and said you can notice how the conditions 'merge' into one? This is some more detail on that.\
If you combine conditions with AND or OR (or or, funny), you can wrap that whole thing in parenthesis and treat it as a big condition, which lets you chain things together.
```js
if((condition1 && condition2) || condition3){
    //Runs if condition 1 and 2 are true, or if condition 3 is true!
}
```
I bet you can see how this could get confusing real quick. Try not to chain these too much, but short chains like above are very handy.
## Wrapping up
Thanks for coming to the meeting, thats about it! If you have any questions, feel free to find me! See everyone at the next meeting!\
-NaS