# Meeting Notes for the 10/10/23 Meeting

Today we went over the next new thing, arrays! I will put an explanation of them below for anyone interested. After that everyone continued work on their beginning tutorials, and attempted to use the new arrays in their games!

## Arrays

Arrays are a way to store multiple variables at once, together. For example, if you have tried the apple catcher tutorial, you probably made the apple teleport back to the top after each catch. That is one way to do it because its such a simple game, but a better way would be to delete the old apple, after all it was already caught, and create a new one at the top of the screen! And what if we wanted multiple apples falling at once? Different speeds? Limitless possibilities! Now, without arrays this would be difficult. To do that you would need a ton of different apples, and it would not be easily expandable to higher speeds and apple count. For example tetris, the pieces get faster as the game progresses right? Well if we want more apples we cant make a million apples at the beginning and hide all but one, and show them as time passes. That is not infinetly expandable, because what if the player needs a million and one? Procedurally generating apples would mean it is limitless!

Alright, enough theory. Onto the good stuff, actually programming it!
To make an array we make a variable that we set to an array as so:

```js
let array = []
```

This makes a new, empty array! But an empty array is worthless, theres nothing in it! So lets add stuff to it!

```js
let array = [obj1, obj2, obj3...]

//Lets add another item after we create the array!
array.push(obj4)
```

So now you can add things to an array, but how do we use them? Well there are lots of ways, for now I will teach you a simple way: The ForEach Loop!

```js
let array = [obj1, obj2...]

array.forEach((obj) => {
    //This code runs once for each item in the array, where obj is the item it is running for!
    //So the first time this code runs, obj is equal to obj1. Then the second time it is obj2, then the loop stops! 
})
```

Do NOT for ANY REASON mess with the array during a loop. Do not add or remove objects from the loop. It is possible, the code wont stop you, but it causes a lot of weird behaviour if you do not know what you are doing.

Now, we can add objects and mess with them, but what about removing them, like removing an apple once its caught?

```js
let array = [obj1, obj2...]
array.remove(obj1)
```

Now, .remove only exists inside WoofJS. Outside of that, in regular JS, we have to do more complicated things to remove objects from an array. I will teach it eventually, but for now as you are just starting out, stick to .remove. It will remove whatever you give it from the array if it is present. The best way to use this is inside a loop, like the for each loop:

```js
let array = [obj1, obj2...]

array.forEach((obj) => {
    //lets say obj is the apple, and we just caught it!
    if(player.touching(obj)){
        //We caught it, yay!
        //Now, because it is a forEach loop it is fine to remove items from the array so I will do what I just said to never do.
        //I know what I am doing and I know its fine, so ill do it. You can always try this but remember, proceed with caution.
        array.remove(obj)
        //There, we have removed the obj from the array!
    }
})
```

If you have any questions, feel free to shoot me an email whenever you want or ask me at our next meeting! I will be happy to help, this is a pretty complex topic!
See y'all next meeting!
-NAS