# Meeting Notes for the 10/10/23 Meeting

Today we continued to work on our games, and I answered whatever questions everyone had as they needed help. I also taught a few basic things to make your code easier, and Ms.Shovlain showed everyone a poster about TSA, a new STEM related club starting at this school!

## setTimeout and setInterval

Timeout and interval were the two new things I taught today. These both are ways to do what WoofJS gives you, but better. WoofJS gives you many things that regulat JS does not have, such as the after and every loops. Behind the scenes, these two loops are glorified ways of using timeout and interval, but because of how WoofJS works it is much worse in functionality.

### setTimeout

This is the replacment for the after loop. You do not need to switch to this, but I would highly reccomend getting used to it. You write a timeout as follows:

```js
setTimeout(() => {
  //Code goes here!
},time)
```

Time is how many milliseconds you want the timer to last. For example, 1000 miliseconds is equal to one second. Any code within those brackets will be ran as soon as the timer expires, once.

### setInterval

Set interval is the more interesting thing today. It is a replacment for the every loop, and I would highly reccomend using it. You should not have any after loops in your game code, and should instead be using these intervals. They are much easier to use once you understand them, and are a lot stronger to use. Heres how they work:

```js
let interval = setInterval(() => {
  //Code goes here
},time)

//When you are done with the loop, end it!
clearInterval(interval)
```

Thats how intervals work, and as you see at the bottom of that their main perk is the ability to end them! This is very nice to have especially with game development. If you have used every loops before, you may be noticing when you restart your game from the code instead of refreshing the page, everything doubles in speed. That is because you cannot end every loops.

## TSA

TSA is sadly not the Transportation Security Administration, instead it is the Techinical Student Association. It is another STEM club being started by Ms.Benbow in the 2500s hall, and if you are interested you should go to her room and ask her for more information!

Hopefully with November almost over we can go back to weekly meetings and all this no school nonsense will stop, and we can continue learning programming! See y'all next week!
-NAS
