# Meeting Notes for the 10/10/23 Meeting

Today we went over the final important topic, Functions! This is the last new thing (For this semester) that I will be teaching, after this meeting everyone will come up with a game idea and start programming it! More on that at the end of this log.

## Functions

Functions are ways to store code to be ran multiple times later. Any block of code you use in multiple places (Ex. Movement code, detecting collisions, etc) you want to have in a function, so that you can use it whenever you want. It is also great for organizing different systems so its easy to change.

To define a function you do the following:
```js
function name(param1,param2...) {
    //Function code!
}
```

Everything inside those brackets is the code for your function. The code in them does not execute until you call the function somewhere else in your code, unlike other things you have seen so far. For example:
```js
let rectangle = new Rectangle({
    //Blah, define a new shape. This ran instantly, as soon as execution made it to this line.
})

function myCoolThing(){
    let rectangle2 = new Rectangle({
        //This rectangle will not be made until we call this function, the code is not ran instantly.
    })
}

//Now lets call the function, and make rectangle2!
myCoolThing(/*If you had any parameters to passs, they go here!*/)
```

### Scope

Scope is one of the most important things to understand about functions. Any variables made in or passsed into a function are local variables; They cannot be used outside of the function. So rectangle2 from our last example cannot be messed with outside of that function, it goes "out of scope". Also, if you were to call the function twice, it would create two "rectangle2" rectangles, both only being able to be acessed during its function call. To demonstrate:
```js
function myCoolThing(){
    let rectangle2 = new Rectangle({

    })
}

rectangle2.angle = 50 //Does not work, will error. rectangle2 does not exist, the code has not ran AND the rectangle object is scoped to the function anyways.

myCoolThing()

rectangle2.angle = 50 //Still does not work, rectangle2 is out of scope because we are not in the function.

myCoolThing()

//Now two rectangles exist, both being unable to be acessed by your code as they went out of scope.
```

Now this poses a problem, what if we want to be able to acess stuff from inside a function? Thats what the return statment is for! It passes something up in scope to its caller. To demonstrate:
```js
function add(x, y){
    return x + y
}

add(5,7) //Returns the value 12, but we dont do anything with it so the result dissapears.

let result = add(5,7) //result is now equal to 12! we can use the value now!
```

The above also shows how parameters are used, they are simply a way to pass data into a function to be used. Technically global variables (Ones not defined in any function) can also be acessed, but thats bad practice and should not be done. A function should only mess with things it has scoped to it, and return its result.

## Future meetings

As I hinted at the begining of this meeting log, we are starting Game Development! Everyone can come up with an idea for a game, and start programming it, and during future meetings we can all help eachother work on them and I can answer any questions y'all have! The last 2(?) meetings of the semester everyone can present their games and we can all have a go at playing them, and showing off the code everyone wrote to make the games possible!
See y'all at the next meeting!
-NAS