# Meeting Notes for the 11/21/23 Meeting

Today was the day before Thanksgiving Break, so we did not do much as not many people showed up. We mostly just had fun and I taught some funny stuff, enjoy!

## Binary!

Binary is the way computers store memory and stuff. Its also a way to count. We count in base 10, decimal. So each digit represents a power of ten.

10.0
^^.^
||.|
12.3

1:10^2
2:10^1
3:10^-1

I bet that formatted horribly but you get my point hopefully. Its a way of representing numbers. Binary is that, but powers of two. 
So 
0 = 0
1 = 1
2 = 10
3 = 11
4 = 100
5 = 101

So on and so forth. Its a fun way of doing stuff!

Hexadecimal is base 16, thats another base programmers tend to use a lot. Its typically used for colors, like #ffffff, or #000000. Sets of 6 numbers written in base-16, hexadecimal. As bases go above 10, we use letters to represent numbers. So A is 10, B is 11, so on so forth.

## Ternaries

Ternaries are a fun way of writing if statments, but in a single line. Dont ever use them except as jokes, because its horrible practice but it is funny. A ternarie is written as follows:

```js
(condition) ? true : false

//As opposed to an IF statment,

if(condition){
    true
} else {
    false
}
```

Its like an if statment, but one line of code! You can also nest them as so:

```js
(condition) ? true : (condition) ? true : (condition) ? true : (condition) ? true : (condition) ? true : (condition) ? true : (condition) ? true : (condition) ? true : false
```

See why we dont use them? :D

I also helped everyone continue development of their games, and then the meeting ended, and we all went home for Thanksgiving! Thats why this log comes out the day before the next meeting lol. At tomorrows meeting we will continue working on our games, and it will be the last meeting before presentations! Last time to get me to help anyone work on their games! Then the next two meetings will be spent playing eachothers games, and then its christmas break!

-NAS